#Community Service Options for Environmental Biology Students

|Name|Location|Contact|Description|Outdoor work?|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|Plant Propagation at Clark College Greenhouse|Clark College main campus greenhouse|Meg Shuman, m.shuman@students.clark.edu|This is an opportunity for those who like to get their hands dirty and work with plants. The activity will take place at Clark College’s main campus greenhouse. We have lots to do to prepare for contracts and the spring sale. The nice part about this is that it is indoors in a greenhouse and sheltered from weather. Days and times are generally: Wed 12-4, Thurs. 12-4 pm, and Fri 9-1 pm|No|
|Ridgefield Wildlife Refuge|||Yes|

2.  outdoor workLocation: Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge, Ridgefield Contact: Keith Rutz, 360-887-4106 or Keith_Rutz@fws.govHabitat Restoration work every Wednesday and Saturday. Check out the flyer in the center of the web link:Winter 2017         https://ridgefieldfriends.org/volunteer-support/volunteer/3. Steigarwald Lake National Wildlife RefugeLocation: Washougal, WAContact: Jared Strawderman 360-835-8767 or Jared_Strawderman@fws.gov See flyer on next page – work days on Jan 21, Feb 18 and March 184. Ecological Restoration in the Gorgeoutdoor workoutdoor work      Location: on the Washington Side of the Gorge – up around milepost 60Contact: Kathleen Perillo I will be organizing a group outing to do some planting at one of the western pond turtle sites in the Gorge at some point in March. This is an opportunity to go to an area that is closed to the public. If the weather is decent we might even see some turtles!!If I can get a group together we will plan a date. I’m open to Sats. Suns. Or Monday afternoons. If I get a group of 4 or more students who are interested and we’ll come up with a date/time that works for you.  Updated 1/13/17 1
Saturday Restoration Work Partiesat Steigerwald Lake National Wildlife RefugeWHEN:The 3rd Saturday of each monthWHERE:Steigerwald Lake NWR in Washougal, WAQuestions? Contact:Jared_Strawderman@fws.gov or via phone at:360-835-8767Winter 2017      Volunteer VolunteerHelp Conserve Habitat for Native Species at the Refuge Help Connect People with Culture and Nature at the RefugeWe invite YOU to leave your books behind and get OUTDOORS with us! Help restore habitat on the Refuge by planting native plants, removing invasive species, building brush piles and much more. This is a great opportunity to hang out with friends while gaining first-hand field experience.WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW:• Come prepared for FUN, rain or shine• Wear long pants and sturdy shoes• Bring a water bo le• We provide all tools, materials & SNACKS!• Meet at the trailhead at Steigerwald Lake Na onal Wildlife Refuge at 9:00amThis is a great chance to see parts of the Refuge that are typically closed to the public! Join us and learn moreabout how YOU CAN GET INVOLVED.We invite people of all backgrounds to participate. No special prior skills or experience isnecessary. All ages are welcome, however youth under 16 years of age must be accompanied by an adult.#3rdSaturdayWorkPartyColumbia GorgeRefuge Stewards2 For more info about the Stewards visit: www.refugestewards.org   The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is committed to providing access to this event for all participants. Please direct all Updaretqeudes1ts/f1or3s/ig1n7language interpreting services, closed captioning, or other accommodations needs to Jared Strawderman,360-835-8767, Jared_Strawderman@fws.gov. TTY 800-877-8339 with your request by close of business one week before the event. In Partnership with the Na onal Wildlife Refuge System